RESIDENTIAL LEASE AGREEMENT (Sample)

A fictional lease used to demo SignD. Ingest it with:
    python -m app.demo ingest samples/sample_lease.txt --doc-id lease

1. Parties and Property. This Lease is made between the Landlord and the Tenant for the
residential unit located at 123 Example Street, Unit 4, Toronto, Ontario.

2. Term. The lease term is twelve (12) months, beginning on January 1 and ending on
December 31. The Tenant agrees to occupy the unit only as a private residence.

3. Rent. The monthly rent is $2,100, due on the first day of each month. Rent is considered
late if not received by the third day of the month.

4. Late Fees. If rent is not paid by the third day of the month, the Tenant shall pay a late
fee of $75, plus an additional $10 for each day the rent remains unpaid thereafter.

5. Rent Increases. The Landlord may increase the rent once per twelve-month period, provided
the Landlord gives the Tenant at least ninety (90) days written notice before the increase
takes effect. No rent increase may take effect during the fixed term of this lease.

6. Security Deposit. The Tenant shall provide a security deposit equal to one month of rent.
The deposit will be returned within thirty (30) days after the Tenant moves out, less any
amounts withheld for damage beyond normal wear and tear or unpaid rent.

7. Early Termination. If the Tenant ends the lease before the end of the term, the Tenant is
responsible for a penalty equal to two (2) months of rent, and remains responsible for rent
until the unit is re-rented. The Tenant must provide at least sixty (60) days written notice.

8. Automatic Renewal. Unless either party gives written notice at least sixty (60) days before
the end of the term, this lease automatically renews on a month-to-month basis at the same
rent, subject to the rent-increase rules above.

9. Maintenance and Repairs. The Landlord is responsible for major repairs and for keeping the
unit in a habitable condition. The Tenant is responsible for minor upkeep, for damage caused
by the Tenant or guests, and for reporting needed repairs promptly.

10. Landlord Entry. The Landlord may enter the unit for repairs or inspection after giving the
Tenant at least twenty-four (24) hours written notice, except in an emergency, when no notice
is required.

11. Subletting. The Tenant may not sublet the unit or assign the lease without the Landlord's
prior written consent, which shall not be unreasonably withheld.

12. Pets. No pets are permitted without the Landlord's prior written consent. An additional pet
deposit of $300 may be required.

13. Governing Law. This lease is governed by the laws of the Province of Ontario.
